---
layout: post
title: "File packaging, Documentation, and Testing in C++"
author: Camille Huang
---
## Lecture Summary
In the past few lectures, our functions were declared and defined in the same file. In C++, every function can be defined only once, but can be declared multiple times. The function declaration has a semicolon at the end, while the function definition contains the implementation in curly braces. Due to the top down nature of compilation, functions cannot be called before they are declared. To remedy this, functions can be forward declared near the beginning of the file. We can also place function declaration in header files to prevent clutter in source files and improve readability of code. This is done using a {% highlight C++ %}#include “header.hpp” statement{% endhighlight %}, and creating source files to hold our function definitions and main functions. To avoid circular dependency, include guards like {% highlight C++ %}#pragma once{% endhighlight %} are used to ensure a header file is only included once. 

Documentation and testing are both important principles in software engineering.  C++ generally uses the documentation program Doxygen. Adding documentation to the source file has its own pros and cons, but in class we added documentation to our header file.  Similarly to documentation in Python, we want to include a description of what our function does, the arguments, the return type, exceptions and error conditions, and other relevant implementation details. We can use the Catch2 testing framework to test our code in C++. The Catch2 header file can be downloaded into a folder with your other files, then used to call and test functions in a similar manner to Pytest. A new source file should be created and will be compiled apart from the existing main file. 
