---
layout: post
title: "About Jasmine"
author: Camille Huang
---

Jasmine was born and raised in Davis. She attended community college in Sacramento before transferring to UC Berkeley as a chemistry major, where she's been living ever since. Her roommate has a black cat with green eyes named Aria whom she adores. This lovable domestic short-hair cat is dorky and easily startled--sometimes, when speeding down the hall, she'll run straight into your leg because she doesn't see you. Jasmine loves to eat thin-crust, pesto pizza with mushrooms, olives, artichoke hearts, and tomatoes and would frequent the Berkeley hot-spot pizzeria Jupiter with her friends before the pandemic. Since the quarantine, she has incorporated taking long walks in the morning into her daily routine: the fresh air and exercise are a great means to maintain her sanity in these tough times. 

A love for music is shared between all three teammates. Jasmine listens mostly to heavy metal and grunge. We both have an appreciation for classical music, as she played clarinet in high school, and I grew up playing violin.  

During her time in community college, she took two computer science classes. After working with python in her physical chemistry class at UC Berkeley, she became immensely interested in the computational aspect of science and was curious to see how far forward these computational methods could bring us. She decided to pursue the MSSE degree because she really like the well roundedness and multidisciplinary nature of the curriculum, and is excited to use what she learns to advance scientific discovery and development. 