---
layout: post
title: "Intro to C++"
author: Camille Huang
---

## Lecture Summary
Today, we were given an introduction to C++. Unlike Python, an interpreted language, C++ is a compiled language. The code you write will be taken into a compiler and translated into binary format that can be directly interpreted by the CPU. Optimization not allowed by interpreted languages is made possible through compilation, meaning programs written in  C++ are much more performant than in Python. However, the feedback loop between writing code and running code is elongated by the intermediate compilation step. When building a program, source code is first compiled into machine code before combined by the linker into a single library or executable. 

In Python, data types are implicitly determined at runtime, while C++ variables are statically-typed. Hence, in general, a variable’s type can be changed in Python, but cannot be changed in C++ after initialization, though typecasting is possible in both languages. Some major syntax difference include the insignificance of whitespace in C++ (statements are grouped with curly braces instead), and each statement must end with a semicolon. 
We wrote our first C++ program, the usual hello_world.cpp : 
{% highlight C++ %} #include <iostream>

int main() { 
std::cout << "Hello World!"; 
return 0; } {% endhighlight %}

Return types of the function are declared in the function definition. In this case, the main function takes no arguments and returns the integer 0 after printing “Hello World!” Conditional statements work similarly with Python. Increment and decrement operators exist in C++ (++/--) that don’t exist in Python. We often use these in for loops. It is important to note that variables declared in conditional statements and for loops are out of scope of the rest of the function. 
