---
layout: post
title: "Monte Carlo Simulation of a Lennard Jones Fluid"
author: Camille Huang
---

## Lecture Summary
Yesterday, we were introduced to the concept of using Monte Carlo simulation to estimate properties of a chemical system. Thermodynamic properties can be modeled as very high dimensional integrals:
$$ \left<Q\right> = \int_V Q\left(\textbf{r}^N\right)\rho\left(\textbf{r}^N\right) d\textbf{r}^N\label{eq.statMechAverage}$$
We seek to simulate a Lennard Jones potential using the Metropolis Monte Carlo method. With the Lennard Jones equations implemented, our task was then to generate sample configurations of the molecular system. Since not all configurations are equally likely, we use the idea of importance sampling to sample particle coordinates from a desired probability density. In this case, we use the Metropolis-Hasting algorithm to accept a change of coordinates with the probability:
$$ P_{acc}(m \rightarrow n) = \text{min} \left[1,e^{-\beta \Delta U}\right]$$
where T is temperature, and \beta is equal to 1/ T .  Following a Markov Chain Monte Carlo method, our acceptance of a random configuration depends on the system’s last configuration. In this case, we displace one particle, and if this change lowers the system’s energy, we accept the move as the next configuration. If not, we accept or reject the configuration using the Metropolis-Hasting criteria.

## Analysis 
Our group tasks for today were to explore the acceptance criteria at different temperatures, write a function to generate initial system configurations given number of particles and box size, and to calculate the radial distribution functions after 50,000 loops of our Monte Carlo simulation at two temperatures. It is common to analyze the structure of particles using a radial distribution function when analyzing molecular simulation functions.
