---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to Monte Carlo Integration and Lennard Jones Equation"
author: Ron Yadin
---


Day two of the MSSE bootcamp covered a ton of ground and was filled with a lot of new and exciting material. 

We started out the morning with an introduction into basic Monte Carlo integration techniques. We learned that with nothing more than the curve of a function, a definined area of interest, and some random point generation, we can quite easily calculate the area under the curve within the defined area. This is done by multiplying the total area of interest by the ratio of points generated below the curve to total points generated. We practiced this technique by estimating pi using a Monte Carlo integration of a unit circle, and learned that more randomly generated points means greater accuracy. In this section, we were also introduced to one of our first non-standard python libraries, matplotlib. This library is commonly used to build graphs, charts, and figures. 

Next, we were introduced to the Lennard Jones equation - a common equation often used to model the interaction energy of non-bonded atoms. This function relates the distance between to particles, their size, and the strength of particle interaction between them to express the potential energy stored between two particles. To use it to assess the potential energy of a system containing more particles, each interaction must be calculated and summed (in a non-repeating fashion). However, in the simulation of bulk particle systems, it is not reasonable to track the huge number of particles that comprise the system. The computational expense to do so would be prohibitive, and take far too long to be practical. 0

Therfore, techniques such as using cutoff values - distances beyond which the interaction energy is negligible - are used. Using a cutoff value in effect tells the simulation software to ignore any interactions with negligible effect on the potential energy, thereby reducing the number of particle interactions that have to be computed. Doing so does sacrificing a small amount of accuracy, and introduces the risk that non-negligible data points will be accidentally ignored. Another technique to aide these types of simulations is the employment of periodic boundaries. In this technique, our small particle system of interest is taken to be surrounded by copies of itself in space, allowing us to simulate a far greater number of particles without necessarily adding too greatly to the computational burden. 
